---
layout: layout
title: CRRA Deputation to Community Board
date: 14 December 2011
---

Firstly, we believe we can all agree that the design of the Westfield car park with regards to pedestrians was not given much, if any, thought before the resource consent was granted or construction commenced.  This is unfortunate, as the NZTA states that "crossing facilities should be a major consideration when developing pedestrian routes" even at car parks. 

Secondly, because this area is designed like a roundabout for the purposes of traffic flow, drivers automatically look to their right when approaching the roundabout and fail to see the pedestrians on their left.  This applies to drivers who are entering the car park from the south and pedestrians attempting to cross to the north side of the footpath, as well as drivers exiting the car park and pedestrians attempting to cross from the north side of the footpath to the south side. As a result, pedestrian safety has been put at risk, as drivers&apos; attention is focused elsewhere.

Therefore, we are asking for changes to be made which will make pedestrians safer.  We have looked at various solutions to deal with the problem and believe that the best option, the one that will make the crossing safest for pedestrians, is to put in a raised platform, or courtesy crossing.  We strongly disagree with the assessment of traffic engineer Steve Dejong that installing a raised platform would give pedestrians a false sense of security and make put them at greater risk.  Extending the footpath across the driveway to the car park will physically force drivers to slow down as they exit or enter the car park.  Currently, a number of drivers race down the ramp, ignore the speed bumps or drive around them and speed out of the car park, paying no attention to pedestrians.  Additionally, there are other drivers who whiz around the corner off Dilworth Street onto Rotherham Street and then zoom around the corner into the car park, again paying no attention to pedestrians.  Having to slow right down for the raised platform will end this dangerous behaviour.

Furthermore, a raised platform will make it evident that pedestrians may be ahead and that care must be taken when approaching this area.  Combined with adequate signage for drivers alerting them to use caution, as pedestrians may be crossing ahead, and for pedestrians warning them to "Cross with care" or "Watch for approaching vehicles", we believe that this area will be much safer.  As it stands, there are raised platforms at the top of both Rotherham Street and Picton Avenue, and, as far as we understand, there have never been any issues with pedestrian safety being compromised at either of these locations.  For those on mobility scooters, keeping the status quo puts them at even greater risk.  E M, sitting here, has been hit twice by cars when trying to cross this car park entry/exit.  Due to the poor sight lines, E M and others using mobility scooters are forced to maneuver out into the line of traffic in order to see if the way is clear for crossing.  This puts him and others in the direct path of oncoming vehicles.  Fortunately, E M has not been injured in either of these incidents, but there could come a time when he or someone else is.  We would like to take the steps now to prevent this from ever happening.  It must also be noted that people pushing prams and shopping trolleys frequently push these out into the line of traffic in order to move out far enough to see around the corner of 'Bed, Bath & Beyond'.  We can all concur that the thought of a pram being struck here by a speeding driver and the consequences that might entail must not be taken lightly, but seriously examined when looking at solutions to the problem.

It states on your website that the Board wants urban planning and design that is more resident-friendly.  It also states that the Board will advocate for residents and, most importantly, the Board will work with the Council to "promote participation in democratic processes".  Bearing this in mind, it was published in the "Western News" (December 12, 2011) that Community Board members met on site with Westfield management and a city council traffic engineer, whom we assume is Mr. Dejong, last Tuesday.  According to the reporter who contacted us for comment, "the traffic engineer made recommendations at the meeting last Tuesday which Westfield and the city council would undertake.  These include further modifications to the road line marking and the addition of an illuminated sign warning motorists exiting the car park to watch for pedestrians".  This is of concern, as it would appear a decision has been made before our deputation has been heard, which makes this whole process right now seem somewhat farcical.  We hope this is not the case. Surely, the most democratic and transparent way to deal with the problem of pedestrian safety on Rotherham Street would have been for all parties to meet on-site to discuss this matter and try to reach an agreement that is resident-friendly and acceptable to all sides.  We are disappointed, to say the least, that we were not invited to attend last Tuesday&apos;s meeting and question why we were not included.  In any event, we now hope that you will take into consideration what has been brought to your attention here this afternoon.  To reiterate, pedestrians are at risk from vehicles both exiting and entering the car park.  An illuminated sign will only alert exiting cars to watch for pedestrians and does nothing to address the vehicles that enter the car park.  Furthermore, drivers can ignore signage, but they cannot ignore a raised platform.  It is for the above reasons that we are asking you today to vote for the safety measures we have outlined here to be put in place.

